Update the getting started guide (#183)
ConduitIO/conduit-site: docs/0-what-is/1-getting-started.mdx

slug: '/getting-started'
---

## Our goal

In this guide, we'll learn how to install Conduit and use it Conduit to build
and run a pipeline. The pipeline will be continuously generating sample user
data (using the
built-in [generator connector](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit-connector-generator))
and printing the data to logs. The user data will contain an ID (which is an
integer) and a name (which is a string).

## Install Conduit

The easiest way to get started with Conduit on your macOS or Linux system is to
install it using our installation script. Simply run the following command
in your terminal:

```shell
$ curl https://conduit.io/install.sh | bash
```

If you're not using macOS or Linux system, you can still install Conduit
following one of the different options provided
in [our installation page](/docs/installing-and-running).

:::note
The Conduit binary contains both, the Conduit service and the Conduit CLI, with
which you can interact with Conduit.
:::

> ## Initialize Conduit 

Author: Since this is a quick start, we might even want to skip this part. It's optional anyway, and we can cut the time to getting the pipeline running.

Reviewer: I would leave it with just the option of `conduit init` to be honest. I think it's a good idea to guide them through that since we have that command available. It'll help with educating them about where things are.

integer) and a `name` field (type: string).

Then we see that we have a destination connector where the data will be written
to. It uses the `log` plugin, which is a built-in plugin that logs all the
incoming data. No settings are used here because we're fine with the default
settings (data will be logged with the `INFO` level).
 
## Run Conduit

With the pipeline configuration being ready, we can run Conduit:

```shell
$ conduit --pipelines.path pipeline-generator-to-log.yaml
```

Conduit is now running the pipeline. Every second, you should see a line like
this in the logs:

```shell
2024-10-30T13:31:08+00:00 INF component=plugin connector_id=example-pipeline:example-destination plugin_name=log plugin_type=destination record={"key":"c3RhbGxib2FyZA==","metadata":{"conduit.source.connector.id":"example-pipeline:example-source","opencdc.createdAt":"1730291468447408842","opencdc.payload.schema.subject":"example-pipeline:example-source:payload","opencdc.payload.schema.version":"1"},"operation":"create","payload":{"after":{"id":3312758023475813349,"name":"representativity"},"before":null},"position":"MQ=="}
```

Here's just the generated record:

> 

Author: I'm thinking that it might be easier to see the data with a file destination. We would provide a `tail | jq` command, and a user would be able to see just the record. With the logs, it's a bit hidden.

        "opencdc.createdAt": "1730291468447408842",
        "opencdc.payload.schema.subject": "example-pipeline:example-source:payload",
        "opencdc.payload.schema.version": "1"
    },
    "operation": "create",
    "payload":
    {
        "after":
        {
            "id": 3312758023475813349,
            "name": "representativity"
        },
        "before": null
    },
    "position": "MQ=="
}
```

The JSON object you see is the [OpenCDC record](/docs/using/opencdc-record) that
holds the data being streamed as well as other data and metadata. In the
`.payload.after` field you will see the user data that was generated by the
`generator` connector:

```json
{
    "id": 3312758023475813349,
    "name": "representativity"
}
```

## What's next?

Now that you've got the basics of running Conduit and creating a pipeline
covered, here are a few places to dive in deeper:
- [Connectors](/docs/using/connectors/getting-started)
- [Pipelines](/docs/using/pipelines/configuration-file)
- [Processors](/docs/using/processors/getting-started)

Looking for more examples? Check out the examples in
our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ConduitIO/conduit/tree/main/examples).

> <!-- TODO add scarf pixel -->

Author: I'll do this in a bit.

          # Type: string
          # Optional
          format.type: 'structured'
          # The maximum rate in records per second, at which records are
          # generated (0 means no rate limit).
          # Type: float
          # Optional
          rate: '1'
      - id: example-destination
        type: destination
        plugin: "log"
```

The configuration above tells us some basic information about the pipeline (ID
and name) and that we want Conduit to start the pipeline automatically. We also
see a source connector, that uses the `generator` plugin, which is a built-in
plugin. The connector settings translate into: generate structured data, 1
record per second. Each generated record should contain an `id` field (type:
integer) and a `name` field (type: string).

Then we see that we have a destination connector where the data will be written
to. It uses the `log` plugin, which is a built-in plugin that logs all the
incoming data. No settings are used here because we're fine with the default
settings (data will be logged with the `INFO` level).
 
## Run Conduit

With the pipeline configuration being ready, we can run Conduit:

```shell

> $ conduit --pipelines.path pipelines/

Author: Needed, because Conduit is installed in another directory.

Reviewer: Since we initialized this directory via `conduit init`, shouldn't this path be known? (i.e.: no need to specifying the flag)

Author: I thought so too, but nope, it's not. If you install Conduit via a package manager, then you'll use that one binary whenever you want to run Conduit, regardless of what's your working directory. That means that you always need to give it the path. For example, on my machine, Conduit is at `/usr/bin/conduit`. So we either need the `pipelines.path` flag or the config path.

Another option is to change Conduit so that it always scans the current working directory. But I'm not sure that's the best way when Conduit is working as a service in a VM or in a container, when I think it should always use a known path.

slug: '/getting-started'
---

## Our goal

In this guide, our goal will be to stream information about flights from an
imaginary airport to a file. The flight records contain just the airline name
and the scheduled departure time.

## Install Conduit

If you're using a macOS or Linux system, you can install Conduit with the
following command:

```shell
$ curl https://conduit.io/install.sh | bash
```

If you're not using macOS or Linux system, you can still install Conduit
following one of the different options provided
in [our installation page](/docs/installing-and-running).

:::note
The Conduit binary contains both, the Conduit service and the Conduit CLI, with
which you can interact with Conduit.
:::

## Initialize Conduit 

> Let's initialize the "working environment":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firs, let's initialize the working environment:
```

```shell
tail -f destination.txt | jq
```

Every second, you should a JSON object like this:

```shell
{
  "position": "MjU=",
  "operation": "create",
  "metadata": {
    "conduit.source.connector.id": "example-pipeline:example-source",
    "opencdc.createdAt": "1730801194148460912",
    "opencdc.payload.schema.subject": "example-pipeline:example-source:payload",
    "opencdc.payload.schema.version": "1"
  },
  "key": "cHJlY2VwdG9yYWw=",
  "payload": {
    "before": null,
    "after": {
      "airline": "wheelmaker",
      "scheduledDeparture": "2024-11-05T10:06:34.148469Z"
    }
  }
}
```

The JSON object you see is the [OpenCDC record](/docs/using/opencdc-record) that
holds the data being streamed as well as other data and metadata. In the
`.payload.after` field you will see the user data that was generated by the
`generator` connector:

```json
{
    "airline": "wheelmaker",
    "scheduledDeparture": "2024-11-05T10:06:34.148469Z"
}
```

The pipeline will keep streaming the data from the generator source connector to
the file destination connector as long as Conduit is running. To stop Conduit,

> press `Ctrl + C` (on a Linux OS, or the equivalent on other OSes). This will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
press `Ctrl + C` (on a Linux OS, or the equivalent on other operating systems). This will
```

slug: '/getting-started'
---

## Our goal

In this guide, our goal will be to stream information about flights from an
imaginary airport to a file. The flight records contain just the airline name
and the scheduled departure time.

## Install Conduit

If you're using a macOS or Linux system, you can install Conduit with the
following command:

```shell
$ curl https://conduit.io/install.sh | bash
```

If you're not using macOS or Linux system, you can still install Conduit
following one of the different options provided
in [our installation page](/docs/installing-and-running).

:::note
The Conduit binary contains both, the Conduit service and the Conduit CLI, with
which you can interact with Conduit.
:::

## Initialize Conduit 

> First, let's create a directory where we will build our first pipeline:

Reviewer: I'd personally avoid this step. Let's assume people know where to create it. In the worst-case scenario, they delete the stuff where it's created, and then they'll do it again in the right place.

Author: I think you're right... I thought I'll need that path somewhere, but I didn't.

```

Now, let's initialize the "working environment" in this directory:

```shell
$ conduit init

Created directory: processors
Created directory: connectors
Created directory: pipelines
Configuration file written to conduit.yaml

Conduit has been initialized!

To quickly create an example pipeline, run 'conduit pipelines init'.
To see how you can customize your first pipeline, run 'conduit pipelines init --help'.
```

`conduit init` creates the directories where you can put your pipeline
configuration files, connector binaries, and processor binaries. There's also a
`conduit.yaml` that contains all the configuration parameters Conduit supports.

In this guide, we'll only use the `pipelines` directory, since we won't need to
install any additional connector nor to change Conduit's default configuration.

## Build a pipeline

Next, we can use the Conduit CLI to build the example pipeline:

```shell
$ conduit pipelines init
```

`conduit pipelines init` builds an example that generates flight information
from an imaginary airport every second. Use `conduit pipelines init --help` to
learn how to customize the pipeline.

If the `pipelines` directory, you'll notice a new file,

> `pipeline-generator-to-file.yaml` that contains our pipeline's configuration:

Reviewer: I would add a call out as 

```
:::tip 

Here's a full detailed information about Pipeline configuration files (/docs/using/pipelines/configuration-file)

:::
```

Author: We have that under "What's next?" or do you think we should move it here?

Reviewer: @hariso you're right. That's enough.

```shell
$ conduit --pipelines.path pipelines/
```

Conduit is now running the pipeline. Let's check the contents of the `destination.txt` using:

```shell
tail -f destination.txt | jq
```

Every second, you should a JSON object like this:

```shell
{
  "position": "MjU=",
  "operation": "create",
  "metadata": {
    "conduit.source.connector.id": "example-pipeline:example-source",
    "opencdc.createdAt": "1730801194148460912",
    "opencdc.payload.schema.subject": "example-pipeline:example-source:payload",
    "opencdc.payload.schema.version": "1"
  },
  "key": "cHJlY2VwdG9yYWw=",
  "payload": {
    "before": null,
    "after": {
      "airline": "wheelmaker",
      "scheduledDeparture": "2024-11-05T10:06:34.148469Z"
    }
  }
}
```

The JSON object you see is the [OpenCDC record](/docs/using/opencdc-record) that
holds the data being streamed as well as other data and metadata. In the
`.payload.after` field you will see the user data that was generated by the
`generator` connector:

```json
{
    "airline": "wheelmaker",
    "scheduledDeparture": "2024-11-05T10:06:34.148469Z"
}
```

The pipeline will keep streaming the data from the generator source connector to

> the file destination connector as long as Conduit is running.

Reviewer: Mention how to stop it, maybe?

Author: Yup! :+1:
